README.md, before:

co.py.cat
=========

An implementation of [Douglas Hofstadter](http://prelectur.stanford.edu/lecturers/hofstadter/)'s Copycat algorithm.
The Copycat algorithm is explained [on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copycat_%28software%29), and that page has many links for deeper reading.

This implementation is a copycat of Scott Boland's [Java implementation](https://archive.org/details/JavaCopycat).
The original Java-to-Python translation work was done by J Alan Brogan (@jalanb on GitHub).
The Java version has a GUI similar to the original Lisp; this Python version has no GUI code built in but can be incorporated into a larger GUI program.

J Alan Brogan writes:
> In cases where I could not grok the Java implementation easily, I took ideas from the
> [LISP implementation](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~mm/how-to-get-copycat.html), or directly
> from [Melanie Mitchell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melanie_Mitchell)'s book
> "[Analogy-Making as Perception](http://www.amazon.com/Analogy-Making-Perception-Computer-Melanie-Mitchell/dp/0262132893/ref=tmm_hrd_title_0?ie=UTF8&qid=1351269085&sr=1-3)".

Cloning the repo
----------------

To clone the repo locally, run these commands:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/Quuxplusone/co.py.cat.git
$ cd co.py.cat/copycat
$ python main.py abc abd ppqqrr 10
```

The script takes three or four arguments.
The first two are a pair of strings with some change, for example "abc" and "abd".
The third is a string which the script should try to change analogously.
The fourth (which defaults to "1") is a number of iterations.

This might produce output such as

```
ppqqss: 6 (avg time 869.0, avg temp 23.4)
ppqqrs: 4 (avg time 439.0, avg temp 37.3)
```

The first number indicates how many times Copycat chose that string as its answer; higher means "more obvious".
The last number indicates the average final temperature of the workspace; lower means "more elegant".

Installing the module
---------------------

To install the Python module and get started with it, run these commands:

```
$ pip install -e git+git://github.com/Quuxplusone/co.py.cat.git#egg=copycat
$ python
>>> from copycat import Copycat
>>> Copycat().run('abc', 'abd', 'ppqqrr', 10)
{'ppqqrs': {'count': 4, 'avgtime': 439, 'avgtemp': 37.3}, 'ppqqss': {'count': 6, 'avgtime': 869, 'avgtemp': 23.4}}
```

The result of `run` is a dict containing the same information as was printed by `main.py` above.

Commit message:

Add a `curses` front-end. This is looking good now!
And clean up some logic in `rule.py`. This is the place where the
"brains" of Copycat really live, it seems; Copycat can only succeed
at solving a puzzle if it can take the `Rule` it deduced and apply
it to the target string to produce a new string. And it can only
do that if the necessary *actions* have been programmed into `rule.py`.
Right now, it explicitly can't deal with "rules" that involve more
than one local change; that involve reversal; or more importantly,
IIUC, rules that involve "ascending runs", because the idea of a
successor-group is(?) known to the Slipnet but not to `rule.py`;
the latter deals only in "strings", not in "workspace objects".
This seems like a major flaw in the system... but maybe I'm missing
something.

README.md, after:

co.py.cat
=========

An implementation of [Douglas Hofstadter](http://prelectur.stanford.edu/lecturers/hofstadter/)'s Copycat algorithm.
The Copycat algorithm is explained [on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copycat_%28software%29), and that page has many links for deeper reading.

This implementation is a copycat of Scott Boland's [Java implementation](https://archive.org/details/JavaCopycat).
The original Java-to-Python translation work was done by J Alan Brogan (@jalanb on GitHub).
The Java version has a GUI similar to the original Lisp; this Python version has no GUI code built in but can be incorporated into a larger GUI program.

J Alan Brogan writes:
> In cases where I could not grok the Java implementation easily, I took ideas from the
> [LISP implementation](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~mm/how-to-get-copycat.html), or directly
> from [Melanie Mitchell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melanie_Mitchell)'s book
> "[Analogy-Making as Perception](http://www.amazon.com/Analogy-Making-Perception-Computer-Melanie-Mitchell/dp/0262132893/ref=tmm_hrd_title_0?ie=UTF8&qid=1351269085&sr=1-3)".

Running the command-line program
--------------------------------

To clone the repo locally, run these commands:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/Quuxplusone/co.py.cat.git
$ cd co.py.cat/copycat
$ python main.py abc abd ppqqrr 10
```

The script takes three or four arguments.
The first two are a pair of strings with some change, for example "abc" and "abd".
The third is a string which the script should try to change analogously.
The fourth (which defaults to "1") is a number of iterations.

This might produce output such as

```
ppqqss: 6 (avg time 869.0, avg temp 23.4)
ppqqrs: 4 (avg time 439.0, avg temp 37.3)
```

The first number indicates how many times Copycat chose that string as its answer; higher means "more obvious".
The last number indicates the average final temperature of the workspace; lower means "more elegant".


Running the `curses` interface
------------------------------

Follow the instructions to clone the repo as above, but then run `curses_main` instead of `main`:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/Quuxplusone/co.py.cat.git
$ cd co.py.cat/copycat
$ python curses_main.py abc abd ppqqrr
```

This script takes only three arguments.
The first two are a pair of strings with some change, for example "abc" and "abd".
The third is a string which the script should try to change analogously.
The number of iterations is always implicitly "infinite".
To kill the program, hit Ctrl+C.


Installing the module
---------------------

To install the Python module and get started with it, run these commands:

```
$ pip install -e git+git://github.com/Quuxplusone/co.py.cat.git#egg=copycat
$ python
>>> from copycat import Copycat
>>> Copycat().run('abc', 'abd', 'ppqqrr', 10)
{'ppqqrs': {'count': 4, 'avgtime': 439, 'avgtemp': 37.3}, 'ppqqss': {'count': 6, 'avgtime': 869, 'avgtemp': 23.4}}
```

The result of `run` is a dict containing the same information as was printed by `main.py` above.
